# Similar Projects / Market Research

## [Layout simulator - Hedyla](https://hedyla.com/en/warehouse-layout-simulator/)

"Evaluate the impact of possible physical and logical changes in your warehouse."

Allows for simulations that allow for a better decision making on the
production , distribution, storage and marketing of products by analysing of it
affects your workload.

## [Warehouse Simulation Software - Anylogic](https://www.anylogic.com/warehouse-operations)

This warehouse simulation software give us the "power to model your warehouse
as in the real-world". The optimization happens through simulation and
visualization, where you are the one that can choose the best design, layout
and operations.

## [Warehouse optimizer by Kees Jan Roodbergen](http://www.roodbergen.com/whopt/)

This warehouse optimizer determines "the best layout for an order picking
area". This means that it optimizes the number of aisles and blocks and
calculate the expected travel distances for a layout.

## Conclusion

Something that these tools don't take into consideration is a very important
factor to the optimization's success, that is human effort. In our case this is
strongly correlated with the amount of time that it takes for someone that
retrieves what's needed from the warehouse. Some of these tools assume that
there's a possibility to expand or adapt the warehouse to the tools themselves,
this isn't the intent of our project.

Since we have a fixed route, no automatization either on the organization of
the layout the products are, or on the inventory collection, we always have the
possibility of human error and fatigue, both can be minimized with a optimized
custom layout.

With these specifications in mind, there seems to be no available software that
can implement the requirements without modifications. The customizability that
we provide by adapting to the warehouse is essential on it's improvement.

Most tools are also overkill in a sense, they provide extra functionality that
won't be used because it isn't needed, this can also be reflected on their cost
. By specializing on the storage and retrieval of products we provide a more
accurate and simple solution for those tasks, without needless "extras".
